Documents new D4C capabilities (#4501)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/security/cloud/d4c/d4c-overview.md

---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/d4c-overview.html
applies_to:
  stack: beta 9.3
  serverless:
    security: beta
---

# Cloud workload protection for Kubernetes [d4c-overview]

::::{warning} 
This functionality is in beta and is subject to change. The design and code is less mature than official GA features and is being provided as-is with no warranties. Beta features are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features.

> ::::

Reviewer: This makes me wonder if we still need to add these manual admonitions when a feature is in beta, or whether the applies tags are sufficient 🤔  @florent-leborgne would probably know this

Author: We don't! Thanks. I'll remove them.

Cloud workload protection for Kubernetes uses Elastic's Defend for Containers (D4C) integration to provide cloud-native runtime protections for containerized environments by identifying and optionally blocking unexpected system behavior in Kubernetes containers.

## Use cases [d4c-use-cases] 

### Threat detection & threat hunting [_threat_detection_threat_hunting] 

> D4C for Kubernetes sends system events from your containers to {{es}}. {{elastic-sec}}'s prebuilt security rules include many designed to detect malicious behavior in container runtimes. These can help you detect events that should never occur in containers, such as reverse shell executions, privilege escalation, container escape attempts, and more.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is a typo. It's also present in the [8.x docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/8.19/d4c-overview.html#_threat_detection_threat_hunting).
```suggestion
D4C for Kubernetes sends system events from your containers to {{es}}. Many of {{elastic-sec}}'s prebuilt security rules are designed to detect malicious behavior in container runtimes. These can help you detect events that should never occur in containers, such as reverse shell executions, privilege escalation, container escape attempts, and more.
```

When you set up the D4C integration, it gets deployed by {{agent}}. Specifically, the {{agent}} is installed as a DaemonSet on your Kubernetes clusters, where it enables D4C to use eBPF Linux Security Modules ([LSM](https://docs.kernel.org/bpf/prog_lsm.md)) and tracepoint probes to record system events. Events are evaluated against LSM hook points, enabling {{agent}} to evaluate system activity against your policy before allowing it to proceed.

Your D4C integration policy determines which system behaviors (for example, process execution or file creation or deletion) will result in which actions. *Selectors* and *responses* define each policy. Selectors define the conditions which cause the associated responses to run. Responses are associated with one or more selectors, and specify one or more actions (such as `log`, `alert`, or `block`) that should occur when the conditions defined in an associated selector are met.

The default D4C policy sends data about all running processes to your {{es}} cluster. This data is used by {{elastic-sec}}'s prebuilt detection rules to detect malicious behavior in container workloads.

> ::::{important} 

Reviewer 2: Suggesting this change in case you decided to implement the suggestion I left above.

```suggestion
::::{note} 
```

> To learn more about D4C policies, including how to create your own, refer to the [D4C policies guide](d4c-policies.md).

Reviewer 2: Suggesting this change in case you decided to implement the suggestion I left above.

```suggestion
To learn how to set up Defend for Containers (D4C) for Kubernetes, refer to the [Get started with Defend for Containers for Kubernetes](get-started-with-d4c.md).
```
